README.md, before:

# EOPF GeoZarr Data Pipeline

**Kubernetes pipeline: Sentinel Zarr → Cloud-Optimized GeoZarr + STAC Registration**

Automated pipeline for converting Sentinel-1/2 Zarr datasets to cloud-optimized GeoZarr format with STAC catalog integration and interactive visualization.

---

## Quick Reference

```bash
# 1. Submit workflow (Sentinel-2 example)
kubectl create -n devseed-staging -f - <<'EOF'
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
  generateName: geozarr-
spec:
  workflowTemplateRef:
    name: geozarr-pipeline
  arguments:
    parameters:
    - name: source_url
      value: "https://stac.core.eopf.eodc.eu/collections/sentinel-2-l2a/items/S2A_MSIL2A_20251022T094121_N0511_R036_T34TDT_20251022T114817"
    - name: register_collection
      value: "sentinel-2-l2a-dp-test"
EOF

# Or Sentinel-1:
# source_url: "https://stac.core.eopf.eodc.eu/collections/sentinel-1-l1-grd/items/S1A_IW_GRDH_1SDV_..."
# register_collection: "sentinel-1-l1-grd-dp-test"

# 2. Monitor progress
kubectl get wf -n devseed-staging --watch

# 3. View result in browser
# Check Argo UI: https://argo.core.eopf.eodc.eu/workflows/devseed-staging
# STAC Browser: https://api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/stac
# TiTiler Viewer: https://api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/raster
```

💡 **RabbitMQ submission:** Port-forward first: `kubectl port-forward -n devseed-staging svc/rabbitmq 5672:5672 &`

---

## What It Does

Transforms Sentinel-1/2 satellite data into web-ready visualizations:

**Input:** STAC item URL → **Output:** Interactive web map (~15-20 min)

**Pipeline:** Convert → Register

**Supported Missions:**
- Sentinel-2 L2A (Multi-spectral optical)
- Sentinel-1 GRD (SAR backscatter)


## Setup

**Prerequisites:**
- Kubernetes cluster with [platform-deploy](https://github.com/EOPF-Explorer/platform-deploy) (Argo Workflows, RabbitMQ, STAC API, TiTiler)
- Python 3.13+ with `uv`
- `kubectl` configured

**📖 Complete setup guide:** See [workflows/README.md](workflows/README.md) for:
- kubectl configuration (OVH Manager kubeconfig download)
- Required secrets (RabbitMQ, S3, STAC API)
- Workflow deployment (`kubectl apply -k`)

**Quick verification:**
```bash
kubectl get wf,sensor,eventsource -n devseed-staging
```

---

## Submit Workflow

### Method 1: kubectl (Testing - Bypasses Event System)

Direct workflow submission:

```bash
kubectl create -n devseed-staging -f - <<'EOF'
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
  generateName: geozarr-
spec:
  workflowTemplateRef:
    name: geozarr-pipeline
  arguments:
    parameters:
    - name: source_url
      value: "https://stac.core.eopf.eodc.eu/collections/sentinel-2-l2a/items/S2A_MSIL2A_20251022T094121_N0511_R036_T34TDT_20251022T114817"
    - name: register_collection
      value: "sentinel-2-l2a-dp-test"
EOF

kubectl get wf -n devseed-staging --watch
```

**Monitor:** [Argo UI](https://argo.core.eopf.eodc.eu/workflows/devseed-staging)

### Method 2: RabbitMQ (Production - Event-Driven)

Triggers via EventSource → Sensor:

```bash
# Port-forward RabbitMQ
kubectl port-forward -n devseed-staging svc/rabbitmq 5672:5672 &

# Get password
export RABBITMQ_PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret rabbitmq-password -n core -o jsonpath='{.data.rabbitmq-password}' | base64 -d)

# Submit workflow
python submit_test_workflow.py
```

---

## Web Interfaces

Access via **EOxHub workspace** (single sign-on): [workspace.devseed.hub-eopf-explorer.eox.at](https://workspace.devseed.hub-eopf-explorer.eox.at/)

| Service | Purpose | URL |
|---------|---------|-----|
| **Argo Workflows** | Monitor pipelines | [argo.core.eopf.eodc.eu](https://argo.core.eopf.eodc.eu/workflows/devseed-staging) |
| **STAC Browser** | Browse catalog | [api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/stac](https://api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/stac) |
| **TiTiler Viewer** | View maps | [api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/raster](https://api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/raster) |

💡 **Tip:** Login to EOxHub first for seamless authentication across all services.



---

## Pipeline

**Flow:** STAC item URL → Extract zarr → Convert to GeoZarr → Upload S3 → Register STAC item → Add visualization links

**Processing:**
1. **convert.py** - Fetch STAC item, extract zarr URL, convert to cloud-optimized GeoZarr, upload to S3
2. **register.py** - Create STAC item with asset hrefs, add projection metadata and TiTiler links, register to catalog

**Runtime:** ~15-20 minutes per item

**Stack:**
- Orchestration: Argo Workflows, Kustomize
- Processing: eopf-geozarr, Dask, Python 3.13
- Storage: S3 (OVH)
- Catalog: pgSTAC, TiTiler
- Events: RabbitMQ

---

## Payload Format

### ✅ CORRECT
```yaml
# Sentinel-2
source_url: "https://stac.core.eopf.eodc.eu/collections/sentinel-2-l2a/items/S2A_MSIL2A_..."

# Sentinel-1
source_url: "https://stac.core.eopf.eodc.eu/collections/sentinel-1-l1-grd/items/S1A_IW_GRDH_..."
```

### ❌ WRONG
```yaml
source_url: "https://objectstore.eodc.eu/.../product.zarr"  # Direct zarr URLs not supported
```

**Why?** Pipeline extracts zarr URL from STAC item assets automatically.

**Find valid URLs:**
```bash
kubectl get wf -n devseed-staging --sort-by=.metadata.creationTimestamp \
  -o jsonpath='{range .items[?(@.status.phase=="Succeeded")]}{.spec.arguments.parameters[?(@.name=="source_url")].value}{"\n"}{end}' \
  | tail -n 5
```

---

## Repository Structure

```
scripts/
├── convert.py               # Zarr → GeoZarr conversion and S3 upload
└── register.py              # STAC item creation and catalog registration

workflows/                   # Kubernetes manifests
├── base/                    # WorkflowTemplate, EventSource, Sensor, RBAC
└── overlays/staging/        # Environment configuration
           /production/

docker/Dockerfile            # Container image
tests/unit/                  # Unit tests
     /integration/           # Integration tests
```

---

## Configuration

**📖 Full configuration:** See [workflows/README.md](workflows/README.md) for secrets setup and parameters.

**Quick reference:**
- S3: `s3.de.io.cloud.ovh.net` / `esa-zarr-sentinel-explorer-fra`
- Staging collection: `sentinel-2-l2a-dp-test`
- Production collection: `sentinel-2-l2a`
- **Enable debug logs:** `export LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG` (or add to workflow env)

---

## Monitor

```bash
# Watch workflows
kubectl get wf -n devseed-staging --watch

# View logs
kubectl logs -n devseed-staging -l workflows.argoproj.io/workflow=<name> --tail=100

# Running workflows
kubectl get wf -n devseed-staging --field-selector status.phase=Running

# Sensor logs (RabbitMQ message processing)
kubectl logs -n devseed-staging -l sensor-name=geozarr-sensor --tail=50

# EventSource logs (RabbitMQ connection)
kubectl logs -n devseed-staging -l eventsource-name=rabbitmq-geozarr --tail=50
```


---

## Troubleshoot

| Problem | Solution |
|---------|----------|
| **"No group found in store"** | Using direct zarr URL instead of STAC item URL |
| **"Connection refused"** | RabbitMQ port-forward not active: `kubectl port-forward -n devseed-staging svc/rabbitmq 5672:5672` |
| **Workflow not starting** | Check sensor/eventsource logs for connection errors |
| **S3 access denied** | Verify secret `geozarr-s3-credentials` exists in `devseed-staging` namespace |
| **Workflow stuck** | Check logs: `kubectl logs -n devseed-staging -l workflows.argoproj.io/workflow=<name>` |



---

## Resources

**Container Image:** `ghcr.io/eopf-explorer/data-pipeline:latest`

**Resource Limits:**
- CPU: 2 cores (convert), 500m (register)
- Memory: 8Gi (convert), 2Gi (register)
- Timeout: 3600s (convert), 600s (register)

**Related Projects:**
- [data-model](https://github.com/EOPF-Explorer/data-model) - `eopf-geozarr` conversion library
- [platform-deploy](https://github.com/EOPF-Explorer/platform-deploy) - Infrastructure (Argo, RabbitMQ, STAC, TiTiler)

**Documentation:**
- Workflow manifests: `workflows/README.md`
- Tests: `tests/` (pytest unit and integration tests)

**License:** MIT

Commit message:

fix: tolerate missing quicklook datasets

README.md, after:

# EOPF GeoZarr Data Pipeline

**Kubernetes pipeline: Sentinel Zarr → Cloud-Optimized GeoZarr + STAC Registration**

Automated pipeline for converting Sentinel-1/2 Zarr datasets to cloud-optimized GeoZarr format with STAC catalog integration and interactive visualization.

---

## Quick Reference

```bash
# 1. Submit workflow (Sentinel-2 example)
kubectl create -n devseed-staging -f - <<'EOF'
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
  generateName: geozarr-
spec:
  workflowTemplateRef:
    name: geozarr-pipeline
  arguments:
    parameters:
    - name: source_url
      value: "https://stac.core.eopf.eodc.eu/collections/sentinel-2-l2a/items/S2A_MSIL2A_20251022T094121_N0511_R036_T34TDT_20251022T114817"
    - name: register_collection
      value: "sentinel-2-l2a-dp-test"
EOF

# Or Sentinel-1:
# source_url: "https://stac.core.eopf.eodc.eu/collections/sentinel-1-l1-grd/items/S1A_IW_GRDH_1SDV_..."
# register_collection: "sentinel-1-l1-grd-dp-test"

# 2. Monitor progress
kubectl get wf -n devseed-staging --watch

# 3. View result in browser
# Check Argo UI: https://argo.core.eopf.eodc.eu/workflows/devseed-staging
# STAC Browser: https://api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/stac
# TiTiler Viewer: https://api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/raster
```

💡 **RabbitMQ submission:** Port-forward first: `kubectl port-forward -n devseed-staging svc/rabbitmq 5672:5672 &`

---

## What It Does

Transforms Sentinel-1/2 satellite data into web-ready visualizations:

**Input:** STAC item URL → **Output:** Interactive web map (~15-20 min)

**Pipeline:** Convert → Register

**Supported Missions:**
- Sentinel-2 L2A (Multi-spectral optical)
- Sentinel-1 GRD (SAR backscatter)


## Setup

**Prerequisites:**
- Kubernetes cluster with [platform-deploy](https://github.com/EOPF-Explorer/platform-deploy) (Argo Workflows, RabbitMQ, STAC API, TiTiler)
- Python 3.13+ with `uv`
- `kubectl` configured

**📖 Complete setup guide:** See [workflows/README.md](workflows/README.md) for:
- kubectl configuration (OVH Manager kubeconfig download)
- Required secrets (RabbitMQ, S3, STAC API)
- Workflow deployment (`kubectl apply -k`)

**Quick verification:**
```bash
kubectl get wf,sensor,eventsource -n devseed-staging
```

---

## Submit Workflow

### Method 1: kubectl (Testing - Bypasses Event System)

Direct workflow submission:

```bash
kubectl create -n devseed-staging -f - <<'EOF'
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
  generateName: geozarr-
spec:
  workflowTemplateRef:
    name: geozarr-pipeline
  arguments:
    parameters:
    - name: source_url
      value: "https://stac.core.eopf.eodc.eu/collections/sentinel-2-l2a/items/S2A_MSIL2A_20251022T094121_N0511_R036_T34TDT_20251022T114817"
    - name: register_collection
      value: "sentinel-2-l2a-dp-test"
EOF

kubectl get wf -n devseed-staging --watch
```

**Monitor:** [Argo UI](https://argo.core.eopf.eodc.eu/workflows/devseed-staging)

### Method 2: RabbitMQ (Production - Event-Driven)

Triggers via EventSource → Sensor:

```bash
# Port-forward RabbitMQ
kubectl port-forward -n devseed-staging svc/rabbitmq 5672:5672 &

# Get password
export RABBITMQ_PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret rabbitmq-password -n core -o jsonpath='{.data.rabbitmq-password}' | base64 -d)

# Submit workflow
python submit_test_workflow.py
```

---

## Web Interfaces

Access via **EOxHub workspace** (single sign-on): [workspace.devseed.hub-eopf-explorer.eox.at](https://workspace.devseed.hub-eopf-explorer.eox.at/)

| Service | Purpose | URL |
|---------|---------|-----|
| **Argo Workflows** | Monitor pipelines | [argo.core.eopf.eodc.eu](https://argo.core.eopf.eodc.eu/workflows/devseed-staging) |
| **STAC Browser** | Browse catalog | [api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/stac](https://api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/stac) |
| **TiTiler Viewer** | View maps | [api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/raster](https://api.explorer.eopf.copernicus.eu/raster) |

💡 **Tip:** Login to EOxHub first for seamless authentication across all services.



---

## Pipeline

**Flow:** STAC item URL → Extract zarr → Convert to GeoZarr → Upload S3 → Register STAC item → Add visualization links

**Processing:**
1. **convert.py** - Fetch STAC item, extract zarr URL, convert to cloud-optimized GeoZarr, upload to S3
2. **register.py** - Create STAC item with asset hrefs, add projection metadata and TiTiler links, register to catalog

**Runtime:** ~15-20 minutes per item

**Stack:**
- Orchestration: Argo Workflows, Kustomize
- Processing: eopf-geozarr, Dask, Python 3.13
- Storage: S3 (OVH)
- Catalog: pgSTAC, TiTiler
- Events: RabbitMQ

---

## Payload Format

### ✅ CORRECT
```yaml
# Sentinel-2
source_url: "https://stac.core.eopf.eodc.eu/collections/sentinel-2-l2a/items/S2A_MSIL2A_..."

# Sentinel-1
source_url: "https://stac.core.eopf.eodc.eu/collections/sentinel-1-l1-grd/items/S1A_IW_GRDH_..."
```

### ❌ WRONG
```yaml
source_url: "https://objectstore.eodc.eu/.../product.zarr"  # Direct zarr URLs not supported
```

**Why?** Pipeline extracts zarr URL from STAC item assets automatically.

**Find valid URLs:**
```bash
kubectl get wf -n devseed-staging --sort-by=.metadata.creationTimestamp \
  -o jsonpath='{range .items[?(@.status.phase=="Succeeded")]}{.spec.arguments.parameters[?(@.name=="source_url")].value}{"\n"}{end}' \
  | tail -n 5
```

---

## Repository Structure

```
scripts/
├── convert.py               # Zarr → GeoZarr conversion and S3 upload
└── register.py              # STAC item creation and catalog registration

workflows/                   # Kubernetes manifests
├── base/                    # WorkflowTemplate, EventSource, Sensor, RBAC
└── overlays/staging/        # Environment configuration
           /production/

docker/Dockerfile            # Container image
tests/unit/                  # Unit tests
     /integration/           # Integration tests
```

---

## Configuration

**📖 Full configuration:** See [workflows/README.md](workflows/README.md) for secrets setup and parameters.

**Quick reference:**
- S3: `s3.de.io.cloud.ovh.net` / `esa-zarr-sentinel-explorer-fra`
- Staging collection: `sentinel-2-l2a-dp-test`
- Production collection: `sentinel-2-l2a`
- **Enable debug logs:** `export LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG` (or add to workflow env)

---

## Monitor

```bash
# Watch workflows
kubectl get wf -n devseed-staging --watch

# View logs
kubectl logs -n devseed-staging -l workflows.argoproj.io/workflow=<name> --tail=100

# Running workflows
kubectl get wf -n devseed-staging --field-selector status.phase=Running

# Sensor logs (RabbitMQ message processing)
kubectl logs -n devseed-staging -l sensor-name=geozarr-sensor --tail=50

# EventSource logs (RabbitMQ connection)
kubectl logs -n devseed-staging -l eventsource-name=rabbitmq-geozarr --tail=50
```

## Quicklook Availability

- Sentinel-2 CPM releases from 2025-10-29 and 2025-10-31 unexpectedly omit the `/quality/l2a_quicklook` group from the Zarr store even though STAC still advertises the asset, so treat it as an upstream gap while we watch for the next EODC update.
- `scripts/convert.py` now probes every advertised quicklook, keeps the ones that respond, and continues when the dataset 404s; resulting GeoZarr artifacts publish without previews until the upstream store restores them.
- Expect empty preview links in TiTiler while the upstream dataset is missing; rerun the conversion once the provider repopulates the quicklook to attach it.
- Regression check: `uv run -q pytest -q tests/test_cli_e2e.py::TestCLIEndToEnd::test_cli_convert_real_sentinel2_data -q`.

---

## Troubleshoot

| Problem | Solution |
|---------|----------|
| **"No group found in store"** | Using direct zarr URL instead of STAC item URL |
| **"Connection refused"** | RabbitMQ port-forward not active: `kubectl port-forward -n devseed-staging svc/rabbitmq 5672:5672` |
| **Workflow not starting** | Check sensor/eventsource logs for connection errors |
| **S3 access denied** | Verify secret `geozarr-s3-credentials` exists in `devseed-staging` namespace |
| **Workflow stuck** | Check logs: `kubectl logs -n devseed-staging -l workflows.argoproj.io/workflow=<name>` |



---

## Resources

**Container Image:** `ghcr.io/eopf-explorer/data-pipeline:latest`

**Resource Limits:**
- CPU: 2 cores (convert), 500m (register)
- Memory: 8Gi (convert), 2Gi (register)
- Timeout: 3600s (convert), 600s (register)

**Related Projects:**
- [data-model](https://github.com/EOPF-Explorer/data-model) - `eopf-geozarr` conversion library
- [platform-deploy](https://github.com/EOPF-Explorer/platform-deploy) - Infrastructure (Argo, RabbitMQ, STAC, TiTiler)

**Documentation:**
- Workflow manifests: `workflows/README.md`
- Tests: `tests/` (pytest unit and integration tests)

**License:** MIT
